DOCSP-30531: db collection page (#17)
mongodb/docs-rust: source/fundamentals/database-collection.txt

data as **documents** that contain field-and-value pairs.

To learn more about the document data format,
see :manual:`Documents </core/document/>` in the Server manual.

Access a Database
-----------------

You can access a database by retrieving a `Database <{+api+}/struct.Database.html>`__ instance from your
client. Call one of the following methods on a `Client
<{+api+}/struct.Client.html>`__ instance to create a ``Database``:

- `database() <{+api+}/struct.Client.html#method.database>`__: retrieve a database by its name
- `database_with_options() <{+api+}/struct.Client.html#method.database_with_options>`__: set
  options (`DatabaseOptions <{+api+}/options/struct.DatabaseOptions.html>`__) while retrieving a
  database by its name
- `default_database() <{+api+}/struct.Client.html#method.default_database>`__: access the
  default database specified for your ``Client`` instance
 
.. TODO when client options page is completed. To learn how to specify
.. the default database for your client, see :ref:`clientoptions`.

You can use a ``Database`` instance
to perform database-level operations and access collections that the

> database contains.

Author: reordered information in these sections + added some explanation for what you can do with collections to the Create a Collection section

your ``Client`` instance. This
method returns a ``Vec<String>`` type, a vector containing the database
names as strings.

The following example shows how to print a list of databases by using
the ``list_database_names()`` method:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
      :start-after: begin-list-db
      :end-before: end-list-db
      :language: rust
      :dedent:
   
   .. output::
      :language: console
      :visible: false
   
      ["admin", "local", "test_db", ...]

To see detailed information about each database, call the `list_databases() <{+api+}/struct.Client.html#method.list_databases>`__
method on your ``Client`` instance. This method returns a
``Vec<DatabaseSpecification>`` type. The ``DatabaseSpecification`` type
contains fields describing each database, such as its size and whether
it contains data.

Drop a Database
---------------

Dropping a database permanently deletes all of the data in that database's
collections. To drop a database, call the `drop()
<{+api+}/struct.Database.html#method.drop>`__ method
on your ``Database`` instance. The following code shows
how to drop a database:

> .. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs

Author: added in all places that reference `db` in the code

the Server manual.

.. important:: Parameterized Collections
   
   You must parameterize your ``Collection`` instance by specifying what
   data type, such as ``Document``, it contains. The ``Collection``
   methods that accept or return instances of the documents in the
   collection accept or return instances of this generic parameter.

   The following example shows equivalent ways of parameterizing a
   collection with the ``Document`` type:

   .. code-block:: rust
      :copyable: false
      
      let my_coll: Collection<Document> = client.database("test_db").collection("coll_xyz");
      let my_coll = client.database("test_db").collection::<Document>("coll_xyz");

   We recommend that you define and parameterize your collection with a
   custom type that models your data instead of the ``Document`` type. By
   using a type specific to your data, you can improve your
   application's performance by avoiding repeated
   serialization code, such as code that verifies certain keys are
   present and that their values are correctly typed.

.. TODO in the prev admonition, link to serialization guide

List Collections
----------------

> To see a list of collections in a database, call the

Author: Reworded to To see the names of the collections in a database

      :dedent:
   
   .. output::
      :language: console
      :visible: false
   
      ["my_coll", "coll_xyz", ...]

To see detailed information about each collection, call the `list_collections() <{+api+}/struct.Database.html#method.list_collections>`__
method on your ``Database`` instance. This method returns a
``Vec<CollectionSpecification>`` type. The ``CollectionSpecification`` type
contains fields describing each collection, such as its type and settings.

Drop a Collection
-----------------

Dropping a collection permanently deletes all of the data in that
collection. To drop a collection, call the `drop()
<{+api+}/struct.Collection.html#method.drop>`__ method
on your ``Collection`` instance. The following code shows
how to drop a collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-drop-coll
   :end-before: end-drop-coll

.. warning:: Dropping a Collection Deletes Data

   Dropping a collection from your database permanently deletes all
   documents within that collection and all indexes on that collection.
   You should drop only collections that contain data that you no longer

>    need to access.

Author: also edited in the drop a database section

.. _rust-create-collection:

> Create a Collection

Author: I agree that it should be moved up, but I think that it should be after "Access a Collection" because that section explains that accessing a collection and inserting data implicitly creates a collection.

-------------------

You can explicitly create a collection by calling the
`create_collection() <{+api+}/struct.Database.html#method.create_collection>`__ method on a ``Database`` instance. This method
takes the collection name and an optional `CreateCollectionOptions <{+api+}/options/struct.CreateCollectionOptions.html>`__
type as parameters.

The following code shows how to create a collection called ``coll_abc``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-create-coll
   :end-before: end-create-coll

.. TODO While creating a collection, you can implement document validation to
.. maintain a consistent document schema and control which write operations
.. succeed. To learn how to enable this feature, see the guide on :ref:`rust-doc-validation`.

> .. _addl-info-db-coll:

Author: Yes, thats a mistake. this isnt linked anywhere though, so Ill just remove the anchor

Additional Information
----------------------

For more information about the concepts in this guide, see the following documentation:

- :ref:`Insert Documents <rust-insert-guide>`
- :manual:`Databases and Collections </core/databases-and-collections/>`
- :manual:`Documents </core/document/>`

> To learn how to run a database command, see :ref:`rust-run-command`.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think this information should be omitted from this page since database commands don't necessarily relate to database or collection operations.

- Access a collection called ``coll_xyz``
- Set a write preference on the collection in the ``CollectionOptions`` type

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-coll
   :end-before: end-coll

To learn more about write concerns, see :manual:`Write Concern </reference/write-concern/>` in
the Server manual.

.. important:: Parameterized Collections
   
   You must parameterize your ``Collection`` instance by specifying what
   data type, such as ``Document``, it contains. The ``Collection``
   methods that accept or return instances of the documents in the
   collection accept or return instances of this generic parameter.

   The following example shows equivalent ways of parameterizing a
   collection with the ``Document`` type:

   .. code-block:: rust
      :copyable: false
      
      let my_coll: Collection<Document> = client.database("test_db").collection("coll_xyz");
      let my_coll = client.database("test_db").collection::<Document>("coll_xyz");

   We recommend that you define and parameterize your collection with a
   type that models your data instead of the ``Document`` type. By

>    using a custom type, you can avoid repeated serialization code

Reviewer: Question:
Is "custom type" the "type that models your data"? If so, could that be clarified here?

>    and improve your application's performance.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it's slightly unclear what this means and think it would be helpful to clarify.

Does using the Document type require repeated serialization code? I would've expected that you could work in BSON-like documents without repeating serialization code, similar to other drivers. What would the required serialization code look like?

If there isn't repeated serialization code, could the benefit be clarified?

.. _rust-db-coll:

=========================
Databases and Collections
=========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-short+} to access
and manage MongoDB databases and collections.

> MongoDB organizes data in a hierarchal structure, in which data exists as

Author: To me, starting two sentences with MongoDB is a little stiff. I will rework the sentences.

**documents** that are grouped into **collections**. A **database** contains
one or more collections.

To learn more about the document data format,
see :manual:`Documents </core/document/>` in the Server manual.

Access a Database
-----------------

> You can access a database by calling the following methods on a ``Client``

Author: updated both sections to which this applicable.

instance:

- ``database()``: access a database by its name
- ``database_with_options()``: set options (``DatabaseOptions``) while accessing a database
- ``default_database()``: access the default database specified in the
  ``ClientOptions`` instance or connection string used to create the

>   ``Client`` instance

Author: added a TODO to link the client options page when it is completed.

The preceding methods return a ``Database`` instance, which you can use
to perform database-level operations and access collections that the
database contains. If you perform an insert operation on a
collection of a nonexistent database, the server implicitly creates the

> database and collection.

Author: reworded in both applicable sections

database called ``test_db``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-database
   :end-before: end-database

List Databases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   
To see a list of your deployment's databases, call the
``list_database_names()`` method on your ``Client`` instance. This
method returns a ``Vec<String>`` type, a vector containing the database
names as strings.

The following example shows how to print a list of databases by using
the ``list_database_names()`` method:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
      :start-after: begin-list-db
      :end-before: end-list-db
      :language: rust
      :dedent:
   
   .. output::
      :language: console
      :visible: false
   
      ["admin", "local", "test_db", ...]

To see detailed information about each database, call the ``list_databases()``
method on your ``Client`` instance. This method returns a
``Vec<DatabaseSpecification>`` type. The ``DatabaseSpecification`` type
contains fields describing each database, such as its size and whether
it contains data.

> 

Author: Now that I inlined the API documentation, this is addressed

.. _rust-db-coll:

=========================
Databases and Collections
=========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-short+} to access
and manage MongoDB databases and collections.

MongoDB organizes data in a hierarchal structure, in which data exist as
**documents** that are grouped into **collections**. A **database** stores
one or more collections.

To learn more about the document data format,
see :manual:`Documents </core/document/>` in the Server manual.

Access a Database
-----------------

You can access a database by calling the following methods on a ``Client``
instance:

- ``database()``: access a database by its name
- ``database_with_options()``: set options (``DatabaseOptions``) while accessing a database
- ``default_database()``: access the default database specified in the
  ``ClientOptions`` instance or connection string used to create the
  ``Client`` instance

The preceding methods return a ``Database`` instance, which you can use
to perform database-level operations and access collections. If you

> perform an insert operation against a collection of a nonexistent

Author: fixed in 2 places

database, the server implicitly creates the database and collection.

> .. note:: List Databases

Author: The list commands are run on the instance one "above" the type that each section describes-- for example, to list databases you would call the method on the `Client` and to list collections you would call the method on the `Database`. Given that this is the case, does it makes sense for the sections to be under the database/collection headers or in new top level sections

   
   To see a list of your deployment's databases, call the
   ``list_database_names()`` method on your client. To see information

>    about each database, call the ``list_databases()`` method.

Author: Did for both "List" sections

   The following example shows how to print a list of databases by using
   the ``list_database_names()`` method:

   .. io-code-block::
   
      .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
         :start-after: begin-list-db
         :end-before: end-list-db
         :language: rust
         :dedent:
   
      .. output:: 
         :language: console
         :visible: false
   
         ["admin", "local", "test_db", ...]

> The following example uses the ``database()`` method to access a

Author: changed structure since I moved the list section out of the admonition anyways

database called ``test_db``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-database
   :end-before: end-database

Drop a Database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To drop, or permanently delete, a database, call the ``drop()`` method

Author: removed the admonition since the point is clear in the text now

> To drop, or permanently delete, a database, call the ``drop()`` method

Author: Given your other comment, I'll leave this content in the text and in the admonition in both sections. LMK if it is redundant

on your ``Database`` instance. The following code shows how to drop a
database:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-drop-db
   :end-before: end-drop-db

> Run a Database Command

Author: I can add this to addtl info instead.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To learn about how to run a database command, see :ref:`rust-run-command`.

Author: since omitting the section from the page, no longer relevant

   
   To see a list of collections in a database, call the
   ``list_collection_names()`` method on your database. To see information
   about each collection, call the ``list_collections()`` method.

   The following example shows how to print a list of collections in a
   database by using the ``list_collection_names()`` method:

   .. io-code-block::
   
      .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
         :start-after: begin-list-coll
         :end-before: end-list-coll
         :language: rust
         :dedent:
   
      .. output::
         :language: console
         :visible: false
   
         ["my_coll", "coll_xyz", ...]

This example uses the ``collection_with_options()`` method to
perform the following actions:

- Access a collection called ``coll_xyz``
- Set a write preference on the collection in the ``CollectionOptions`` type

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-coll
   :end-before: end-coll

To learn more about write concerns, see :manual:`Write Concern </reference/write-concern/>` in
the Server manual.

.. important:: Parametrized Collections
   

>    You must parameterize your ``Collection`` instance by specifying what

Author: I believe that to even get a handle on a collection, you need to parameterize the collection.

>    You must parameterize your ``Collection`` instance by specifying what

Author: Methods like `drop()` and `create_index()` do not manipulate any data, true, but what I was trying to communicate in my response was that to even successfully compile any code that calls the `collection()` method, you need to parameterize the collection while calling `collection()`. So, even to call `drop()` or some other non-CRUD method, you need to parameterize the collection, even if the data is never manipulated in any way.

   application's performance.

.. TODO in the prev admonition, link to serialization guide

Drop a Collection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To drop, or permanently delete, a collection, call the ``drop()`` method
on your ``Collection`` instance. The following code shows how to drop a
collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-drop-coll
   :end-before: end-drop-coll

.. warning:: Dropping a Collection Deletes Data

   Dropping a collection from your database permanently deletes all
   documents within that collection and all indexes on that collection.
   You should drop only collections that contain data that you no longer
   need to access.

.. _rust-create-collection:

Create a Collection
-------------------

You can explicitly create a collection by calling the
``create_collection()`` method on a ``Database`` instance. The
``create_collection()`` method takes the collection name and an optional
``CreateCollectionOptions`` type as parameters.

To learn about the settings you can specify in a
``CreateCollectionOptions`` instance, see its `API documentation

> <{+api+}/options/struct.CreateCollectionOptions.html>`__.

Author: addressed when I split up and moved the api links

The following code shows how to create a collection called ``coll_abc``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-create-coll
   :end-before: end-create-coll

> Document Validation

Author: moving to its own page, but divided on whether or not to nest it under the Databases & Collections page. Open to feedback on placement

> Document Validation

Reviewer: Resolving since that's outside this PR now.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> **Document validation** lets you restrict the types of documents that

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think repeating the heading text isn't necessary and may not be the best way to word this intro sentence.

```suggestion
You can use **document validation**  to restrict the types of documents that
```

Author: no longer relevant since content was moved and reworded

can exist in a collection. If you implement document validation, you
can successfully execute only write operations that adhere to the

> validation rules.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think "you can successfully execute only" is awkward and "you can" implies the user might be responsible for success/failure.

"If you implement document validation, the server allows you to execute only write operations that follow those validation rules."

You can specify document validation when creating a collection by

> setting the following fields in a ``CreateCollectionOptions`` instance:

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think "implement document validation" should match with the prior description "if you implement document validation" to make it clear they're the same thing. I would prefer "implement" for activation of a feature or implementation of an interface. I think "specify" might be preferable only when providing a value to something.

- ``validator``: specifies a validator to restrict the schema of
  documents. To learn more about specifying a validator, see :manual:`validator

>   </reference/command/collMod/?utm_source=compass&utm_medium=product#mongodb-collflag-validator>` in the Server manual.

Author: manually removed the flags

- ``validation_level``: specifies how strictly the database should apply
  the validation rules to existing documents during update operations.
  To learn more about specifying a validation level, see :manual:`validationLevel
  </reference/command/collMod/?utm_source=compass&utm_medium=product#mongodb-collflag-validationLevel>` in the Server manual.
- ``validation_action``: specifies whether the database should raise an
  error or a warning if inserted documents do not adhere to the

>   validation rules. To learn more about specifying a validation action, see :manual:`validationAction

Reviewer: Issue:

I wasn't able to find this information in the Server manual link -- only "whether to error on invalid documents or just warn...".

Suggestion:
If there are only two values, incorporate them into this description.
"specifies whether the server should raise an error or warn when you insert documents that don't follow the validation rules. Possible values: "ValidationAction::Error", "ValidationAction::Warn"."

Similar comment for the other Server manual links.

Reviewer: Resolving since no longer relevant to this PR. However, to answer your question, it depends on how it's presented. It should not be presented as the only source of information, especially if it does not explain how to use that information.

  </reference/command/collMod/?utm_source=compass&utm_medium=product#mongodb-collflag-validationAction>` in the Server manual.

This example creates a collection called ``survey_answers`` with the
following document validation specifications:

- The ``validator`` setting specifies that the ``answer`` field in each
  document must have a value of ``"never"``, ``"sometimes"``, ``"often"``, or

>   ``"always"``.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think the example could be simplified by reducing this to two or three values instead of four since only two are used in the example data.

- The ``validation_action`` setting specifies that the driver should
  raise an error if a write operation violates the validation rule.
- The ``validation_level`` setting specifies that the validation is
  ``Moderate``, so the validation rules apply only to inserts and
  updates on existing valid documents.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/db-coll.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-document-validation
   :end-before: end-document-validation

> With these document validation rules, you can successfully insert the

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think "with these ..." implies that they're passed along in the insert, which could be avoided by rewording the sentence.

```suggestion
When you set these document validation rules, you can successfully insert the
```

I think starting two sequential sentences with "When" and "However," is a common pattern that can make it easier to follow.

- `drop() for Database <{+api+}/struct.Database.html#method.drop>`__
- `collection() <{+api+}/struct.Database.html#method.collection>`__
- `collection_with_options() <{+api+}/struct.Database.html#method.collection_with_options>`__
- `CollectionOptions <{+api+}/options/struct.CollectionOptions.html>`__
- `Collection <{+api+}/struct.Collection.html>`__
- `list_collection_names() <{+api+}/struct.Database.html#method.list_collection_names>`__
- `list_collections() <{+api+}/struct.Database.html#method.list_collections>`__
- `WriteConcern <{+api+}/options/struct.WriteConcern.html>`__
- `drop() for Collection <{+api+}/struct.Collection.html#method.drop>`__
- `create_collection() <{+api+}/struct.Database.html#method.create_collection>`__
- `CreateCollectionOptions <{+api+}/options/struct.CreateCollectionOptions.html>`__
- `validator <{+api+}/options/struct.CreateCollectionOptions.html#structfield.validator>`__
- `validation_level <{+api+}/options/struct.CreateCollectionOptions.html#structfield.validation_level>`__
- `validation_action <{+api+}/options/struct.CreateCollectionOptions.html#structfield.validation_action>`__
- `ValidationAction <{+api+}/options/enum.ValidationAction.html>`__

> - `ValidationLevel <{+api+}/options/enum.ValidationLevel.html>`__

Author: Choosing to move the links to the end of each section
